---
layout: post    
title:  "Basic OOP"
date:   2019-12-06 09:23:42 +0100
categories: oop
---

OOP is an abbreviation for object-oriented programming. In early 1960s, OOP concept was introduced by 
a programming language Simula in 1962 in Oslo by Ole-Johan Dahl. 
<br/><br/>

Before OOP, program was one part of the flow.  Software design and maintenance was very difficult as the code gets bigger. 
When OOP was introduced, it made the software design more simple, scalable and maintainable. Programmer always wants to write simple, 
scalable and maintainable code. To achieve that he/she must have good knowledge of OOP.
The basic concept of OOP are encapsulation, inheritance, abstraction and polymorphism.
<br/><br/>

 In object-oriented languages like Java, C#, C++ we create an object from a class. A class is a structure or blueprint for an object. 
 If the structure of the class is not good then it can create a difficult situation in an application. The strength of an application 
 depends on its design. To write well-designed and structured class we should first have a better understanding of OOP. 

<br/><br/>

 I still remember, my senior developer advising me, good developers have better understanding of OOP but on those days I
 tied myself with some framework but never tried to understand them better. Everyone learns from experience. By the time, I understood
 its importance. Now I think developer that has better understanding of the OOP principle can always get leverage with it. 
 The core of object-oriented languages is the OOP principle so I always try to understand them better.



